0:01
In the previous section we looked at doing machine learning from scratch using TensorFlow. But, there is a full spectrum of machine learning models available. You would use TensorFlow if your machine learning researcher interested in extending the open source SDK. If you're interested in creating new machine learning models for research, etcetera. On the other hand if you're in industry as a data scientist and you want to build a machine learning model on your data set. And the machine learning model that you're building is something that's pretty well understood, you would want to use Cloud ML Engine, right. This is basically going to give you no-ops, so that you are not in the business of managing infrastructure, to be able to do machine learning at scale over real world data sets. In the previous lab, no we were doing it with TensorFlow on a very small data set just about 700 rows long. Simply because that's all that would fit, right? The real world, you would do it on a large data set, and you would need much more powerful infrastructure, and rather than manage all that infrastructure yourself, you would typically just submit the job to Cloud ML, and have that taken care of.
1:13
The third option in the spectrum is this idea that there are variety of machine learning models that already exist and it's kind of painful to reinvent the wheel. So if what you're looking at is how do I take some audio and transcribe it, well don't go around building your own speech model. Just use a speech model that has already been developed because how are you going to get the amount of data that's needed to train that model? So the machine learning APIs are all about taking pre-built models and incorporating them into your applications. So you're using machine learning, but you're not training a machine learning model, when you use ML APIs.
1:56
And the reason that you want to use the ML APIs is that the quality of a machine learning model increases with the amount of data that you have in it. So as the amount of data increases, your accuracy goes up. And the reason your accuracy goes is up, as you increase the amount of data, is because you can use larger and larger
2:22
and larger newer networks you also have a huge computer problem. And that the scale at which Google operates, very deep networks, to use TensorFlow processing units, we do distributer training and we can do no-ops. So cloud ML gives you all these things if you have a data set that's large enough to solve the problem.
2:45
You tend to have that kind of a data set for things that are relevant to your business. But maybe not for something like classic image recognition or classic speech recognition and natural language processing. This is where you basically want to take advantage of the amount of data that Google has collected in order to build our vision models and our speech models and our language models. And the good thing is that the speech and vision and language models that Google has created are available to you as machine learning API's.
3:17
The machine learning APIs and other words are built off Google's data. So if you ever use the Android app, where you can point the application, add a foreign language sign and get it translated. Well, that app uses translation, it uses optical character recognition and OCR, Optical Character Recognition is part of the Vision API and translation is part of the Translate API. Similarly if you're being on Android and you've done a voice on Google or you use Google maps and you've done a voice search, you've basically using the capability that goes into the speech API, right? Being able to take audio and turn it into words so you you can do something with those words. Or the sentiment analysis of things like reviews. Is it a positive mention? Is it a negative mention? Those are the kinds of things that these models already exist. Google has built them off of Google's collected data. So we can take advantage of it with the ML APIs. 
