
Welcome to Google Cloud Platform, this is Grant Moyle. In this video, we're going to take a look at Analyzing unstructured data on Google Cloud Platform using the machine running based APIs. If you watched the previous video on dataproc, you might recall this slide. Humans are great at deriving insight by looking at chart and graphs and picture. Computers are great accounting things, but how do we bridge the gap between the two? Well, that's where machine learning fits in, modelling the way humans learn, just we want to do it with computers. As was said in Wired magazine in May of 2016, soon, we won't program computers, we'll train them like dogs. Well, how do you train a dog or maybe a cat or a spouse, well you reward good behaviour and you discipline bad behaviour. Well, it's not quite like that, it's more like how our children learn. You show them lots of pictures of dogs and tell them that they're dogs. Then, show them lots of pictures of other animals that are not dogs and slowly, their brain builds a model for it. Rinse and repeat, this time for cats and birds and snakes and cows. I recall both my children when we were working on their smell neural network. We'd be driving along in the car and would pass a cow pasture with the windows down and you'd hear, ew, what's that smell. Well, that was their neural network being formed. We'd associate the smell of the cows with the word cow.

Now, 20 years ago, while I was a graduate student, I took a semester on machine learning, but the problem was, back then is, we didn't have the computing power. Back then, if our lab got $100,000 grant, I could buy six servers. So essentially, I got six CPUs and built some simple learning models and crunch away at data for days upon days. But we could never really touch vision or speech or all that sort of stuff. These days, you don't need to build those, they are available for us to use directly as in this vision API, the speech API, the natural learning API or the translate API. And more APIs are being added all the time. Such as, you might have heard about the newly announced jobs API, which is plug and play for helping companies do hiring and resumes and job application processing. Pretty cool stuff.
