So this is what the lab will look like, so you probably want to console.cloud.google.com. This is the GCP console, and there you have the full projects that you could select, so for example I have a bunch of projects open. So, I'm going to be selecting the cloud training demos projects, so I'm fine there. And I'd say that I want to go ahead and create a compute engine. So, go to compute engine and I'd say that I'd like to go ahead and create it.

So at this point I can provide a name of the compute engine I just leave it as it is. The zone that I want to compute engine to be in. We talk about zones ad regions shortly. >> But lets say I peak your central one F. And then I say, how many CPUs that I want,how much memory that I want. So I could say that I want to have, for example N1 standard two, which is two virtual CPU,or N1 standard 16, which is 16 CPUs, and of course, the one CPU, one. Currently cost $27 a month. The eight CPUs cost 206 dollars a month, right. So there's this cost that's shown to you when you pick a machine. But you could also say that you want to customize a machine. And I'd say, I want to basically go ahead and create a machine with four cores. And they say 20 gigs of RAM. And that's basically what it's going to cost. So, I can fine tune the machine that I want. Here, I'll just say that I'll want a single CPU machine, the basic. And that I want a Debian kernel. But we could go ahead and change this, it could be Debir and Centaurs or Ubuntu etcetera. You could also have those of the appendix system images, you can also have custom images, you can have snapshots that you've made of existing BMs, you can have different application images, you could use an existing disk. Please go ahead and use the default of and jesey, that's the current default, and then I'll go ahead and say that I want this virtual machine. To be able to access all the cloud APIs. In particular, we wanted to be able to access cloud storage.

Okay, but rather than just provide access to an API one by one, we'll take the simple way out, allow access to all the cloud APIs. We're not going to be running a web server, so I don't need to allow http or https traffic to the virtual machine. And I can go ahead and do management disks networking, add my own encryption keys and so on. But now, let's just go ahead and pick the default. Go ahead and say create and at this point, the instance is getting created. Should take usually 60 seconds or so. And we should have our instance and that instance is going to get created in us-central-f because that was a zone that I selected when I created it.

So, want to see this green click, it means that the instances has been created. You can go ahead and look at this instance the details offer and of course there's no CPU or anything, we haven't started using this instance yet. But let's go ahead and SSH into it, so I can SSH from here or I can SSH from this other window. I'll just quick hit SSH and at this point

we basically have our SSH window that comes up. This is also just a browser window. Notice that it's transferring SSH keys to the virtual machine establishing connection, and there we are. At this point my machine is empty. I have something. Now, I can type top and I can see that now I have my machine. It's not really doing anything. Not no zero percent of the CPU is getting used. So, let's go ahead and at this point. No let's see if for example, git is installed. I can type in git, and the command's not found, it's not installed. So, what I'll do is I'll go ahead and then install git, and in order to do that, I'll do sudo Apt-get installed git, okay. And it says do you want to continue, yes I want to continue. And at this point, it's going to go ahead and get that software, install it. The key thing to realize is If I want to run something that requires root access, I do sudo.

Quick trick. If you need to do something that requires lots of root, you want to keep not doing multiple things as root, you can also do sudo su, and that switches you to root. And now who am I? I should be route and I can do routes stuff but let's exit that. So, at this point I have gate install, I have machine up.

Let's go ahead and see what we can do with this machine but to do that let's go back to the lecture. [BLANK AUDIO]
