So, in this section what we've done is that we've basically started out very simple – looking at a table, looking at a preview of the table, finding columns, creating queries, using clauses, using inner selects, using some built-in functions like LPAD etc. Doing joints to basically find the fraction of flights that depart late from New York's La Guardia Airport and restricted to rainy days. Right. So let's go ahead and try this out. This will step you through the process of doing this, learning how to run BigQuery queries. Again the labs and the scores are not meant to show you something new, are they meant to reinforce the topics that I'm covering in the lectures. Right. All of the labs are about reinforcement, about taking these examples and showing them in a holistic way because when you look at it in a slide, I'm just going to be sure to use snippets. I'm not going to be showing you the entire code. So the labs are a way for you to go look at the entire code. So please go ahead and look at the entire code, figure out how all of the pieces go in together and fit together, and then what I strongly recommend you do is that you go to BigQuery itself. Notice that in BigQuery, right, you basically have a variety of other projects. If you are in big Query and you don't see these projects, what you can do is switch to project. And you can basically switch to project so they can say display project and then you can type the name of a project and I... One of the ones that I would say you try is BigQuery samples. Okay. And you can say now display it, and at that point Big Query samples will show up on the left hand side of your BigQuery console with a variety of data sets there. Pick one of these datasets and try to do your analysis on it, try to basically see how do I write a query to look at the Nasdaq stock quote for the Google stock, right, and figure out something about Google stock, for example. Right? So go ahead and try something out. And that's the way you learn. Right? So but first before you can try something out on your own, you should probably look at a holistic example of how something is put together and that's the purpose of these labs. So go ahead and do this lab and we will start back. 
