So let's move on to talk about the big data products in GCP.

So the best way to think about the Google Cloud Platform is that it's a set of building blocks. It is a set of things that are well designed such that they are well designed, that they are well integrated, such that you can put together your own solutions to solve your problems in a very convenient and very intuitive way. So Spotify kind of illustrates the typical customer journey. So these are all Spotify tweets. And Spotify came to Google Cloud, the reason that most people come to the cloud. It's not to spend less, but to just pay for the use to basically get more security, now because things can be safer if they're secured on the cloud with Google's security engineering team, for example. It can be no-ops, no-ops is, again, a word that we'll use quite a bit. And what we mean by no-ops in this context, a no-op is essentially no systems operation required. In other words, you don't need to spin up a cluster and do a job on it. You just have a job, and you submit it to the cloud. And Google cloud figures out which machines to run it on, runs it, and you don't even interact with those machines at all, for example. So those are all advantages. So that's the reason why many companies come to the cloud. And that's kind of why Spotify came to the cloud. So this was one of their tweets, did you hear we're migrating from our own data centers to Google Cloud Platform?

And then they realized, hey, look, I see two nice building blocks in Google cloud. I see something called Pub/Sub with some messaging system. And I see data flow with a data pipeline execution environment. And look, if I can put these two things together, we can build our own event delivery system. So that's our second tweet. See how we use Google cloud, Pub/Sub, and data flow to build our own event delivery system. In other words, there is this whole flexibility to put together your own solutions.

That's great, but in addition to building your own solutions, there is also the extreme power that already comes built in. And that was that third tweet where there's a Google's big query is the bomb. You can start with 2.2 billion things and summarize down to 20,000 things in less than a minute. And the reason that he's so excited is that before big query, it probably took them, I don't know, maybe an hour, maybe a couple of hours. So there's a huge benefit in terms of business advantage, to take things that used to take you hours and do them in seconds. And that's kind of where that's a promise, that transformational aspect of doing things on the cloud. You may never be able to convince your boss to give you 3,000 machines if you're not going to use those 3,000 machines all the time. But on the cloud, you can get 3,000 machines for a few minutes, get your job done. And that time savings is worth a lot.

Another way to look at the Google cloud is functionally, what does it do? What do these products do? So each of these blue hexagons is a Google cloud platform product. And they all do different things. So you can group them. For example, there is the foundational pieces, there is the computing, there is storage, Compute Engine and Cloud Storage, which are a foundation. You have a number of types of databases, Cloud Datastore, Cloud SQL, Bigtable, etc. These all have different target use cases, and we'll talk about them, why you might want to use Datastore versus Cloud SQL versus Bigtable. But these are all databases. And then you have some things that are about analytics, like BigQuery, or about machine learning, like Cloud ML, or the Translate API, or the Vision API, etc.

And then you have data-handling frameworks, things that help you deal with streaming data, that help you move data from one place to another. This is things like Pub/Sub, Dataflow, Dataproc, etc. So this is the way that we are going to look at the cloud platform, we look at them in terms of these things. We look at foundational stuff, we look at databases, we look at analytics and ML. And then we look at data-handling frameworks.

The reason that there are all of these big hexagons is that Google is trying to solve a particular issue related to how people get onto the cloud. Which is that a lot of times, people want to migrate the code that they're already running. So it's just about changing where they're computing, not actually changing the code itself. Because you don't want to do too many things at the same time. So you may take software services that you're running on-premise, and you may might want to move it to Google cloud.

And so in that sense, what all that you want to do is to change where you compute, but you want to do exactly the same things. So if today, in your own data center, you're running a Hadoop cluster and you want to move that code, that project, over to the cloud platform,

well, you can take Cloud Dataproc and migrate things over. You can migrate your Hadoop, Spark, or big jobs over to Google cloud, and run it on Cloud Dataproc. Similarly, if you have a MySQL database, you could run it on Google Cloud using Cloud SQL. So these are all different ways of taking things that you're already doing and just changing where you're doing the computation.

At another level, the reason that you maybe move in to the cloud is because the cloud gives you greater scalability and reliability. So if you need to do very large scale, very reliable messaging, you might want to use Cloud Pub/Sub. If you want to do very scalable, very flexible, very reliable data processing, you may want to do Dataflow. But you might also do it in Spark with Dataproc and take advantage of the fact that with Dataproc, you'll get to resize clusters very quickly, right? So you may be looking at using the DataFlow, Dataproc, Pub/Sub for the scalability and reliability that the cloud provides. This is the concept that I was talking about where if you are running things on a cluster of, say, not 20 machines or 30 machines, then the reason you're doing it is because you have to justify the cost on an annual basis. You may be able to go ahead and do that exact same thing in a much more scalable fashion on the cloud because you can easily justify using hundreds of machines for now 20, 30 minutes, rather than having to have those things crunched through your data and take now days or months.

The third reason why people move to the cloud is all of the innovation, right, the things that the cloud, Google's environment makes possible. So, whether it's data exploration, business intelligence, and economic data warehouse for petabytes of data, whether distributed machine learning, those are all things that change how you do your computing. So these are not things that you may be doing today. You may not be analyzing petabytes of data because it may not be the kind of thing that you can do on a timely basis. But you can do that on Google cloud, and that basically means that now rather than just moving code that you're doing over, you may be taking and creating new business concepts, new capabilities. New lines of business that open up because you can now do something that you didn't used to be able to do. Right, maybe you're able to analyze your factory floor in real time, which you weren't able to do. Or maybe you're able to analyze your customer's behavior, give them recommendations on what to buy in real time, which you may not have been able to do. Those are the kinds of transformational use cases that you may be able to do. So if you're looking at Google cloud, then there are three possible situations that people come to the cloud that now, again, this is stuff that we see because I'm part of the Professional Services Org at Google. We can see these different use cases play out all the time. There are people who are doing migrations, changing where to compute, people trying to scale up their data processing or make it more reliable, and people looking at transforming their businesses. So all three of these things are supported by the BigData and Machine Learning platform, and we will look at all of them.
