If you look at the kinds of data that you have in your company.

What kind of sources of data do you have?

And what kind of data do you actually analyze?

You might think of our data that you have and that you analyze, data that you don't have you wish you had, data that you have but for whatever reason you don't analyze and you have data that is probably present in a third party that you could go and acquire. But, let's kind of key off on one aspect of it. The aspect of data that you have that you don't analyze. Why is that? Why would you have data you're storing it, you're keeping it around. You have it it's accessible. But, for whatever reason you don't analyze it. So what are some of those reasons?

Maybe, the the amount of data is too large for you to analyze, maybe it's volume. Maybe it's veracity, maybe you're not sure about how good that data is. Is it worth analyzing? Anything else? Well, perhaps it's the fact that it's coming so fast that trying to keep up with that stream of data. The velocity of that data could be too high.

Well, that's one reason. But, I think that in many cases, it's not just about volume or veracity or about velocity. It's something more fundamental than that. It has to do with the kinds of tools that we're familiar with. We're very familiar with analyzing structured data. If it's data in a database, it's a relational data no problem at all. But, if it's data that's not structured, lots of times we just leave it completely unanalyzed. So, no I'm a Google professional services and I talk to customers quite a bit. And, I posed this question to them, what kind of data that you have that you don't analyze? And, they think about it and they talk about data that's too large you know that's not things that are arriving too fast. But, then I say, "well what do you do about your e-mails?" Surely your customers send you e-mails. What do you do about them? And they look at me like I'm crazy. Who analyzes e-mails? How about newsgroups? What do you do with newsgroups? How about photographs that your technicians take on the field? Nope. So, if you have inspections being carried out and you have photographs what do you do with those? This has to do with the tools that we have available to us; unstructured data, images, free form text. It's genuinely hard. And so, what we're going to be looking at next in the data engineering course, is how to deal with unstructured. 
