So even at Google we face this problem. There was a time that someone at Google had this great idea that we take cameras, put them on top of cars and drive them through every street in the world. Even more amazing to me someone higher up at Google thought that was a really good idea and they would put money into this. So this actually happened, and there were cars that drove through a number of streets in the world. Those photographs that were taken by those cars got surfaced in Google Maps. The way that these were used was that now you would have directions and you say you're going there and there'd be this little picture where it showed this is where you're going, this is what the storefront looks like et cetera. So that was good. It was basically collected and it was basically used and shown to whoever is using Google maps. But that was pretty much it. We didn't have any technology in place to do anything else with that data. So we had all this imagery from all over the world and we're doing nothing with it. But then over time, deep learning came along. Our machine learning improved and we said, "Hey, how about we go back and look at all the imagery that we've collected over time from street view maps?" And we did. We went back to those images and we're looking at those we could say, "Oh, well, here is a street sign. Here is a street number. Here is a business. Here's a road." And we could actually then make it a feedback loop. We could look at these images that were collected by cars driving through and we could basically use them to enhance our maps. That's essentially what you're talking about. You may have unstructured data that you have laying around in your company that you're using maybe for one specific purpose. And usually the purpose is to surface to a human user because a human user can look at that unstructured data and they can make sense of it. But you don't have any automated programs that analyze that unstructured data. So what do you want to look at is how we can use machine learning, the advances that have happened in machine learning, to analyze those images, those free-form text, etc. When we are looking at that the thing to realize is that you don't need to start from scratch. You don't have to build an image recognition model in order to take advantage of all the image data that you have. You can use pre-built models and essentially apply them. So those are what we will call the machine learning APIs. So whether it's analyzing free-form text or whether it's analyzing images, we will be able to take advantage of pre-built machine learning models. We'll apply those machine learning models to data that we have around, and we will extract out information that we can then use. 
