So when you think about analytical tools and much of the analysis that we do, they're all about counting. When you look in MapReduce, what are the things that we do on a MapReduce system? Essentially we count things. When I say this to people, they look at me, and they say, no, we do something more complex than that. But think about it, just think about it. Suppose you're trying to figure out, well, are we experiencing delays in payment processing? Surely a delay in payment processing is not just counting. But, what is it that you actually do when you're trying to figure out delays in payment processing? You're going through every transaction, and for every transaction, you're basically figuring out how long it took you to basically make the payment. And you're taking that and maybe you're adding it up over all the transactions. You're finding a mean of some kind. That's counting. You're adding, you're counting, now you're basically looking at how many transactions took longer than three days to pay, right? That's essentially a counting problem. And this is what I would call it easy counting problem and MapReduce is full of easy counting problems. You go through a very large set of data and through that set of data, you basically are looking for specific things and you're counting the number of times they happen.

And as long as the things that you are looking for are easy to analyze, it becomes a pretty easy counting problem.

But there are other kinds of problems that are a little bit harder. Suppose I were to ask you, not for delays in payment processing, but I were to ask you say, well, how often are your programmers checking in low quality code? That is also a counting problem. How often is someone doing something is a counting problem. But the thing that you're counting, low quality code, is extremely hard to just extract from data ,right? Your data or the code. But how can you look at code and say, is this low quality or high quality, okay? That's what makes it a harder counting problem. If the thing that you're trying to detect is harder, then it makes it a harder counting problem, but it's still a counting problem. Lots of analytical tools are about counting problems. But when we look at counting problems, depending on what it is that we count, they could be easy counting problems, or they could be much harder counting problems.
