So, here's the general layout of what the Google Cloud Platform looks like right now. Now I will note that just in the last several weeks some of these future regions and zones have actually come online. So this map is always changing and I encourage you to go up and take a look at Google Cloud Platform, Zones and Regions page. Now, let me point you to that really quick. I'm just going to go to my browser, grab a new tab and I'm going to search for GCP zones and regions. And almost always the first article that comes up is the Google Zones and Regions. And when you click on this, it'll actually, just scroll down a little bit and it'll show you all the current locations that you could run Google Cloud Platform resources, although your results may vary a little bit.

There are certain regions that can't support some Google products but in the case of Dataproc, it's just compute engine so it's already supported in all these regions. And like, for example, the latest ones that came up, europe- west2 I just saw pop up last week and us-east4 just came online fairly recently too. So that's what we're talking about is, you know, sort of in this map, is we want to basically make sure that we put our compute nodes where our data lives. Now, Google runs a network within a zone, so within a Google Cloud Platform zone the data transmitting between storage and compute is literally passing across what Google calls their petabits bisection network. So basically, they didn't build, you know, they didn't build petabit network cards but when they aggregate all the bandwidth and they look at, sort of, the capabilities on that it's on the petabit scale. Now between regions and also between zones you have less bandwidth. Between zones in the same region that's basically they're different buildings or different segments of buildings with separate isolation across so the bandwidth isn't quite to the petabit scale. And then when you go between regions you're looking at fiber optic connections scattering the globe and Google transmitting it across those network segments. So that's why it's again really important to choose where your data is versus where your data PROC cluster is. 
